# Defining the Problem

## Project Outline

My project will consist of a 2D pixel-art survival platformer, an arcade which uses a predetermined set of rooms and enemies that the user will have to navigate through. The game is going to use a fixed camera around each room, which the user can navigate accordingly by using the X and Y axes on-screen. 

The overall goal of this game is to reach a high core by killing randomly generating enemies, and defeating entire waves of them. The user will also be able to collect an in-game currency, which can be exchanged upon death for permanent buffs to each player character. High scores will be saved under the user’s inputted username in a score table all users can view. 

This game will use simple keyboard controls, such as the A and D keys for simple left/right movement, the SPACE key to jump, the W and S keys to aim upwards or downwards, and the SHIFT key to slash with the sword. Having a relatively simple and recognisable control layout could provide younger or less experienced players with a user-friendly interface. This in turn makes my game available to a wider variety of target audiences.

## Stakeholders

My game is a 2D arcade platformer, designed to be a pick-up-and-play game, demanding less dedication towards the game strategy-wise, so is aimed at a more casual user group, being easy to learn and play. 

Personally, I am a great fan of 2D fighting platformers, so this game naturally appeals to me. Many other members of the gaming community appreciate such games, a chief example being Super Smash Bros. and Dead Cells. As such, my game would fit in with those stated above, thus would also be targeted to players such as myself.

## PEGI Rating

The official website classifies their 7 rating as: “Game content with scenes or sounds that can possibly be frightening to younger children should fall in this category. Very mild forms of violence \(implied, non-detailed, or non-realistic violence\) are acceptable for a game with a PEGI 7 rating.” 

Therefore, my target audience will be around the 7+ range, as I believe that although violence will be present, the graphical representation of my game, which uses pixel art, will not be graphic enough to frighten or negatively influence younger children, therefore will not fall into or above the PEGI 12 category. Furthermore, my game requires a frequent use of reflexes and a high reaction time. A younger audience, such as children under 7, may find it hard to keep up with the action on screen, so will not benefit much from playing it.



